[Steers] Add research software credit and recognition task page (#660)
EVERSE-ResearchSoftware/RSQKit: pages/tasks/credit_recognition_research_software.md

---
title: "Credit and recognition for research software and RSEs"
description: "Guidance on making software contributions visible, citable, and verifiable, and on building the evidence needed for career progression as a Research Software Engineer."
contributors: ["Mehdi Zoubiri", "Federica Quaglia", "Thanasis Vergoulis", "Maria Makaronidou", "Shoaib Sufi"]
page_id: credit_recognition_research_software
related_pages:
tasks: [citing_software, archiving_software, publishing_software, complete_bibliographic_metadata_codemeta, fair_rs]
quality_indicators: [software_has_citation, persistent_and_unique_identifier, archived_in_scholarly_repository, descriptive_metadata, codemeta_completeness, versioning_standards_use]
keywords: ["credit", "recognition", "orcid", "citation", "doi", "codemeta", "citation.cff", "research software engineer", "rse", "open science", "career progression", "contributor roles"]

---

## How do you ensure contributors to your research software receive appropriate credit?

> Research software, along with the people who develop, maintain, and train others in its use, is fundamental to modern science. Yet traditional research assessment still prioritises publications over code, workflows, and maintenance. This page provides practical guidance on making software contributions visible, citable, and verifiable — and on building the evidence base you need for career progression as an RSE.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Research software, along with the people who develop, maintain, and train others in its use, is fundamental to modern science. Yet traditional research assessment still prioritises publications over code, workflows, and maintenance. This page provides practical guidance on making software contributions visible, citable, and verifiable — and on building the evidence base you need for using your software work for career progression cases.
```

### Description

Impact in research software is not captured by citation counts alone. For RSEs and research software contributors, impact spans reuse, community adoption, and technical excellence — but these do not translate automatically into the kind of evidence that hiring committees, promotion panels, and grant reviewers can assess. You need to actively build and present that evidence in terms that non-technical reviewers can understand.

### Considerations

- Quantitative indicators such as download counts are useful, but must be paired with narrative descriptions of technical complexity and scientific impact. Numbers tell reviewers how much; narrative tells them why it matters.
- Check explicitly whether your institution or funder — for example, Horizon Europe — recognises non-traditional outputs such as software in its assessment frameworks. The policies that apply to you will shape which types of evidence to prioritise.
- Include a "Credit and Recognition" section in your Software Management Plan, and treat contribution tracking as a process-over-product matter: record how contributions are captured from the start, not retrospectively.

> - Externally validated evidence carries more weight than self-reported claims. Contribution records generated by platforms are more credible in formal assessment contexts than a list you compiled yourself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Externally validated evidence can enhance self-reported claims. Contribution records generated by platforms offer additional credibility in formal assessment contexts alongside your self-compiled information.
```

#### Link your software releases to your ORCID record

- Ensure all releases deposited via {% tool "zenodo" %} or {% tool "figshare" %} are connected to your {% tool "orcid" %} record. This creates a permanent, verifiable link between your identity and your technical outputs, visible to any reviewer who looks you up.

#### Document adoption and reuse concretely

- Beyond contribution tracking, evidence of how widely your software is used carries significant weight. Useful proxies include download counts on package managers ({% tool "pypi" %}, {% tool "cran" %}), inclusion in major research infrastructures, dependency graphs, and papers that directly cite or use your software. If it’s made easier to compile these actively it makes it easier to give reviewers tangible measures of reach and scientific relevance.

#### Build credibility through peer recognition

> - Participation in initiatives such as [HiddenREF](https://hidden-ref.org/) or [SSI Fellowships](https://www.software.ac.uk/programmes/fellowship-programme) signals community standing in ways that metrics alone cannot. These carry particular weight with reviewers unfamiliar with how to evaluate technical work, because they represent an external judgement of quality and leadership within the RSE community.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Participation in initiatives such as [HiddenREF](https://hidden-ref.org/) or [SSI Fellowships](https://www.software.ac.uk/programmes/fellowship-programme) signals community standing in ways that metrics alone cannot. These carry particular weight with reviewers unfamiliar with how to evaluate technical work, because they represent an external judgement of quality and leadership within the Research Software Community.
```

---
title: "Credit and recognition for research software and RSEs"
description: "Guidance on making software contributions visible, citable, and verifiable, and on building the evidence needed for career progression as a Research Software Engineer."
contributors: ["Mehdi Zoubiri", "Federica Quaglia", "Thanasis Vergoulis", "Maria Makaronidou", "Shoaib Sufi"]
page_id: credit_recognition_research_software
related_pages:
tasks: [citing_software, archiving_software, publishing_software, complete_bibliographic_metadata_codemeta, fair_rs]
quality_indicators: [software_has_citation, persistent_and_unique_identifier, archived_in_scholarly_repository, descriptive_metadata, codemeta_completeness, versioning_standards_use]
keywords: ["credit", "recognition", "orcid", "citation", "doi", "codemeta", "citation.cff", "research software engineer", "rse", "open science", "career progression", "contributor roles"]

>   url: "https://everse-training.app.cern.ch"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

---
title: "Credit and recognition for research software and RSEs"
description: "Guidance on making software contributions visible, citable, and verifiable, and on building the evidence needed for career progression as a Research Software Engineer."
contributors: ["Mehdi Zoubiri", "Federica Quaglia", "Thanasis Vergoulis", "Maria Makaronidou", "Shoaib Sufi"]
page_id: credit_recognition_research_software
related_pages:
tasks: [citing_software, archiving_software, publishing_software, complete_bibliographic_metadata_codemeta, fair_rs]
quality_indicators: [software_has_citation, persistent_and_unique_identifier, archived_in_scholarly_repository, descriptive_metadata, codemeta_completeness, versioning_standards_use]
keywords: ["credit", "recognition", "orcid", "citation", "doi", "codemeta", "citation.cff", "research software engineer", "rse", "open science", "career progression", "contributor roles"]

> training:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

---
title: "Credit and recognition for research software and RSEs"
description: "Guidance on making software contributions visible, citable, and verifiable, and on building the evidence needed for career progression as a Research Software Engineer."
contributors: ["Mehdi Zoubiri", "Federica Quaglia", "Thanasis Vergoulis", "Maria Makaronidou", "Shoaib Sufi"]
page_id: credit_recognition_research_software
related_pages:
tasks: [citing_software, archiving_software, publishing_software, complete_bibliographic_metadata_codemeta, fair_rs]
quality_indicators: [software_has_citation, persistent_and_unique_identifier, archived_in_scholarly_repository, descriptive_metadata, codemeta_completeness, versioning_standards_use]
keywords: ["credit", "recognition", "orcid", "citation", "doi", "codemeta", "citation.cff", "research software engineer", "rse", "open science", "career progression", "contributor roles"]
training:

> - name: "EVERSE TeSS"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
